Viii ι

concise and compressed a form as possiblc3 though much of this
material needs perhaps to be recorded only once and might be
greatly abridged if it has everto appear again in a new shape.

The length of the explanatory notes calls I fancy for less cx-
cuse. This very year three centurion have elapsed since Lambinus
published the first edition of his Lucretius3 and from that day to
this nothing new and systematical‚ nothing that displays pains
and research has been done for the elucidationes our author.
Transcendant as are the merits of that illustrious scholar, what
was suited to 1564 carr hardly satisfy the wants of 1864. No de·
fence then is needed for the extent of this division of my commen-
tary: if it were done over again, more would probably have to be
added than taken away. It will not be so easy perhaps to excuse
the translation, This however is really a part of the explanatory
notes; and ifit had been left undone‚ they must have been err-
larged irr many directions. Our author too unless I am mistaken
will admit of being thus treated better than most; and the fashion
of literal translations seems to be gaining ground in this country
as well as in Germany and France.

To the advice and friendly assistance of my brother fellow
Mr King, our highest authority in that branch of art, is due the
likeness of the poet which appears orr the titlepage. With K. O.
Mueller, Emil Braun and other judges he is convinced that the
original on a black agate represents our Lucretius. The style of

art and the finely formed letters of the name point to the late
republic. Almost unknown then in other respects, in this he has
'been more fortunate even than Virgil, whose so-called portraits are
all I am told late conventional and unreal.

Sincerely yours

ΤΗΕ ΕΒΙΤΟΒ.

 

